---
layout: post
title:  "From Hypothesis"
date:   2017-03-08 10:00:00 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---
#### Here is the introduction to a paper that I'm working on.

According to the prevailing interpretation of Aristotle’s _Prior Analytics_, a complete (_teleios_) _sullogismos_ (plural: _sullogismoi_) is an argument such that the conclusion’s following from the premises is obvious. An incomplete (_atelês_) _sullogismos_ is an argument such that the conclusion follows from the premises but the conclusion’s following from the premises is not obvious. A completed (_teleioumenos_) _sullogismos_ is a chain of reasoning that demonstrates for an argument that the conclusion follows from the premises—typically, the argument in question is an incomplete _sullogismos_. [I say typically because there is no reason why one may not supply a chain of reasoning for an argument such that the conclusion’s following from the premises is obvious.] On this interpretation, a completed _sullogismos_ is what is today known as a deduction. When Aristotle speaks of _sullogismoi_ in general—not specifically about incomplete or complete _sullogismoi_—he is talking about chains of reasoning, not mere arguments. For example, where Aristotle says that apodeixis is a special case of _sullogismos_, a _sullogismos_ must be a chain of reasoning, for a demonstration (_apodeixis_) is certainly more than a pairing of premises with a conclusion. We will take the above observations, which are the foundations of the Corcoran-Smiley interpretation, as the starting point for this paper. We will not be directly engaging with interpretations that are incompatible with them—for example, the interpretation of Lukasiewicz, for whom a _sullogismos_ is a conditional proposition. Given that _sullogismos_ in the general sense means deduction our concern is to ask how we should understand what Aristotle means when he says of a given _sullogismos_ that it is “from hypothesis” (_ex hupotheseôs_).  

The question arises because many scholars who agree that _sullogismoi_ are deductions nonethless claim that _sullogismoi_ “from hypothesis” are not deductions. On their reading, which traces its origins back to Alexander of Aphrodisias, the phrase _sullogismos_ ex hupotheseôs may be compared to the phrase “toy train” [example comes from Crivelli]. Our calling something a toy train communicates not that it is a train but just the opposite, that it is not really a train. Likewise, on their interpretation, Aristotle’s calling something a _sullogismos_ “from hypothesis” communicates not that it is a _sullogismos_ but just the opposite, that it is not really a _sullogismos_. The main problem with this interpretation is that Aristotle calls indirect deductions _sullogismoi_ “from hypothesis”, and indirect deductions really are deductions (_sullogismoi_). Given that fact, it is more likely that _sullogismos_ “from hypothesis” really is a species of deduction (_sullogismos_), and we need to consider what kind of deduction it is.
